so it used to be widely presumed that
YouTube was not making a profit that
YouTube was either operating at a loss
or just barely at a break-even basis but
the fact is we still don't know YouTube
probably generates 16 billion to 25
billion in assets let's just let's just
pause to appreciate how big the gap is
between those two numbers that have just
been presented to you with estimates
maybe 16 billion maybe 25 billion that's
the sort of thing a stock market analyst
should know much more precisely everyone
likes to complain about their job even
at the best of times and needless to say
if making content on YouTube is your job
this is not the best of times when your
life is just this tiny apartment and in
a couple of computer screens it adds up
and at the end of the day like my
ability our ability to make videos comes
down to our mental health which was you
know lacking earlier this month I
watched a video about D monetizing on
YouTube called YouTube biggest lie and
it really hammered home a very common
problem with YouTube is that they just
don't communicate with content creators
there was a wildly popular video from a
YouTube channel called nerd city in
which he gathered together the
perspectives of several critics
including those that support a really
interesting lawsuit in Germany backed by
a trade union really raising the
question what if we start to take
YouTube seriously as an employer as a
company that has responsibilities to its
employees it's an interesting
philosophical question but I think it's
wrong I think this is a question framed
in a way that's really looking at the
whole situation from a kind of false
perspective what can I tell you I don't
have a better word than wrong stick with
me here I'll explain it to you here's
where the discourse in YouTube was at in
most of you are old enough to remember
this YouTube's 1 billion viewers no
profit
so again if you're old enough to
remember that used to be this widespread
discussion especially in you know
financial times that kind of source
about the curious fact that YouTube had
kind of global popularity and yet was at
best a sort of break even and perhaps a
money-losing operation for this enormous
corporation Google and remember at one
time YouTube was a separate company but
that it was purchased by Google this is
part of a widespread phenomenon of post
tech boom companies trying to encourage
the same kind of reckless optimism on
the part of investors as was endemic to
the earlier period of the tech boom many
of you will not be old enough to
remember that
so think about uber the uber ride share
Corporation those of you watching this
video 100 years in the future when uber
has been completely forgotten
uber was a self-styled technology
company that basically allowed people to
in a streamlined way use their mobile
phones to order a taxicab and it
motivated the taxicab drivers this is
the important part but offering them
many you know amazing bonuses and
incentives for example recruitment
bonuses if you drove a car and then you
encourage someone else to drive a car
and then they did ten rides in a week or
something some threshold to show that
they were really doing the job seriously
then you got paid a bonus the bonus is
for doing the job and recruiting new
people bonuses bonuses bonuses
absolutely none of those bonuses
absolutely none of those payments were
economically sustainable because the
company as a whole was not profitable
right and people who really started to
plan their lives around doing this job
for for who thought oh hey this could be
a way to earn a living long term then
they figure out at one point hey these
bonuses these special incentives they
don't last forever and you start reading
in the newspaper
nobody's even sure if uber can stay in
business it's growing it's becoming a
worldwide phenomena but it is
fundamentally not profitable so a
company like that can't continue on the
basis of being a charity with its
employees as the beneficiaries it just
doesn't make sense and on the contrary
the rise and fall of Ober demonstrates
to you what the advantages are to a
conventional taxi cab company taxco
companies they may be horrible in a lot
of ways my my got my grandfather my
great uncle my great uncle was in the
taxi business I guess that's who he was
Oh something like that anyway I had
family in the taxi business believe it
or not when you're looking at a business
like that we said look for all of its
defects for all of its inefficiencies
this is providing people with the
ability to pay their rent and put their
kids through college for a period of
many decades consistently then maybe
there's something we have to learn from
the analysis of that model and in this
video I'm gonna try to sling provocative
and getting you to question YouTube and
its financial situation not in a vacuum
but with the kind of brief parallel
brief comparison to how the how the
publishing industry works okay it's fair
if you're saying like why you had one
video do kind of wonky for a couple
hours dude get over it I hear you I wish
I could have it had been such a such a
year for us you know I've been doing
this 12 years now and 12 years is a long
time to do anything and 12 years is a
long time for to do something that
people have cared about the entire time
so it used to be widely presumed that
YouTube was not making a profit that
YouTube was either operating at a loss
or just barely at a break-even basis but
the fact is we still don't know and one
of the most fundamental rules of
economics is that when people keep
numbers a secret they're not good
nobody imagines that YouTube is
fantastically profitable but that the
Google corporation is keeping these
numbers a secret I don't know for just
creative reasons for artistic reasons
because it's more inspirational that way
know whatever the reason is for why the
numbers have been kept secret not just
from the general public but from
investors and analysts it can't be good
so here's a here's a much more recent
article 2019 YouTube probably generates
16 billion to 25 billion in assets let's
just let's just pause to appreciate how
big the gap is between those two numbers
that have just been presented to you
with estimates maybe 16 billion maybe 25
billion that's the sort of thing a stock
market analyst should know much more
precisely if you have to round off to
the nearest billion that's a problem
when you've got a gap of 10 billion in
your estimates it's a big big problem
and again everyone presumes you know
Google is not letting people know
because whatever the numbers are it
ain't good it ain't good for business
it's better for business if you don't
know okay
so between 16 and 25 go and have an
annual revenue making the video service
big enough to crack the top half of the
fortune 500 but that's just a guess
YouTube does not disclose revenue
profitability how many ads it runs
alongside videos user numbers and how
often those users visit the site all
metrics that would help an investor
quote understand the health of the
distance and its purpose trajectory
close quote said mr. Paget so if you
guys can remember when dating websites
used to be discussed in the newspapers
all the time these would be precisely
the statistics or some new website says
hey we help
husbands find wives we help husbands
cheat on their wives or whatever these
different websites that were offering
romance very often the first thing they
would be boasting and newspaper
interviews in the first piece of
information they'd be presenting and you
know to the press or what-have-you
would be exactly this type of statistic
so
why would Google be keeping that a
secret for this website you're watching
right now for YouTube the arguments made
by alphabet corporation to the SEC for
not disclosing YouTube separately quote
don't hold water close quote
quote I'm surprised that the SEC hasn't
pressed it more close quote sadness
Noreen Weldon it's a legitimate question
for shareholders given the size of the
business so there is an open question
right now in 2019 as to whether or not
government regulators will finally force
Google Corporation to disclose whether
YouTube is profit-making money-losing
operating on a charitable break-even
basis or what but no matter what the
scenario is this has to profoundly
influenced the way content creators the
way we perceive ourselves if the company
as a whole is not profitable then your
role here is more like a parasite you
can't really be expecting to be earning
a good living and you know furnishing
your house and so on when you're part of
a company as a whole that does not work
that isn't profitable that isn't
sustainable same with an uber driver if
you're making a long-term decision for
your career for example should you be a
normal limousine driver who does
limousine rides between the airport and
the downtown of the major city or should
you take the same car and drive for for
uber well I think if you look at the
economic fundamentals the situation
you're gonna see why it is that the taxi
industry has been sustainable why the
conventional limousine booking
businesses have been sustainable and
what uber has not been sustainable and
how you should live your life
accordingly if you want to be a
filmmaker if you want to do news
politics you name it there are a lot of
different ways to earn a living
through YouTube I think if you look at
the economic fundamentals situation
you're gonna figure out that YouTube
should really not be the place you do
any of those things and hey let's keep
this in perspective nobody is trying to
do Facebook as their career I wish I
could say nobody was trying to do
Instagram as their career bizarrely
there are some people try to interpret
living just by
come on Instagram I hope I hope I can
say nobody is trying to do Twitter as
their courier maybe but you mean the
fact that a website exists the fact that
a website gets millions of viewers or
millions of participants does not mean
that a sustainable model for even the
corporation that owns the website let
alone for the content creators let alone
for the participants so let's take a
look back at the the book publishing
industry so obviously this is an article
from Forbes magazine say a typical
publisher wholesales ten thousand copies
of a new business book at twelve dollars
and fifty cents apiece marketing
printing and editing expenses might eat
up another sixty thousand and the
author's advance another twenty thousand
as for royalties the author might take
home 20% of the wholesale price this is
a very generous estimate I used to work
in book publishing specifically
nonfiction book publishing but you'll
see in a moment this is 20 percent as a
generative estimate okay but the only
other note is he says 20 percent of the
wholesale price the devil is in the
details how do you define the wholesale
price maybe with some publishers maybe
it would be 20 percent but it's 20
percent of a very low price
you know much lower than the price
that's on the on the cover the author
might take home 20% of the wholesale
price however he has to earn out his
twenty thousand dollars advance by
selling at least eight thousand books
before getting any more if all ten
thousand books fly off the shelves the
author makes his advance plus five
thousand dollars for a total of twenty
five thousand and the publisher bags a
gross profit of forty thousand if the
booksellers move fewer than six thousand
four hundred copies the publisher loses
money but the author still gets his
advance hence all that risk so deep you
know everyone likes to complain about
their job everyone likes to complain
about their boss and their employer and
you talk to authors you can talk to
authors who have become
multimillionaires through book
publishing and the first thing they're
gonna say to you is how terrible the
book publishing industry is and how
oppressed they are by their editor or
the corporate owners or what-have-you
okay what we have here in terms of the
economics that have just been sketched
out to you this is a very reliable very
profitable business model that has
worked for at least a hundred years
we're probably talking about 200 years
things haven't changed that much okay
and you know what if you're planning you
want to do with the next 12 years of
your life use that number for a reason
you'll see any money if you're playing
what you want to do for next 12 years
life you know what being an author or
even opening your own publishing company
it's not that bad a bet again I used to
work in publishing yes
the internet has changed the game but
the Internet has also made many elements
of the game easier and more streamlined
you can now print a book and then dump
it in an Amazon warehouse so you don't
have to physically own your own
warehouse and actually physically put a
label on each book you sell and when I
worked at a publisher we did all that we
literally had cats in the warehouse to
prevent mice from eating the books and
it was a kind of inspirational place to
be but you know we are involved with
physically owning you know metal plates
that are used to print the books you
know you you give them to a craftsman
and they itch the plates and then you
get them printed and so on
you know the warehousing the shipping
it's a lot of work so yeah the Internet
has changed things but it's made it much
easier to find an audience it's made it
much easier to get involved with
retailing and warehousing and
distribution it's opened up all kinds of
possibilities it's made it much easier
for a small group of people to start
their own publisher print their own
books
distribute own books and guess what the
fundamentals make sense you're actually
making the world a better place by
publishing books people want to read by
educating people by doing research and
sharing it with the world what have you
I mean if you know publishing books is a
morally positive thing and enriches the
reader it enriches the publisher and it
enriches the author this is proven to
work okay
what we're doing here on YouTube is no
more
to work then Wikipedia Wikipedia
provides information to people but it
does not provide a living to the content
creator of Facebook maybe you're the
manager of a Facebook group with
thousands of members I am actually I'm
the manager of like the largest I think
the largest Facebook group for vegans in
Japan I do no work it's incredibly easy
but I'm the whatever I'm the editor for
that group I don't have any money out of
it I guess Facebook the corporation
earns a little bit of money out of
people coming there and discussing how
hard it is to be vegan in Japan whatever
right so the fact that you know a portal
exists on the internet doesn't mean it
can replace the role of cable television
radio or even the paper book but in the
same sense that uber or taking advantage
of the technology of the mobile phone
doesn't mean they can actually replace
you know the the business elements the
economic elements that make it possible
to really employ people provide them
with health care benefits and pensions
you want so on and so forth from driving
taxis and driving limousines you've got
to look at these things with a little
bit of skepticism okay
traditional versus self-publishing how
much money can you really make the math
is simple if you are a first-time author
and you go with the publisher you can
expect the following deal advance two
thousand to four thousand dollars and
then payment your royalties six percent
to 10 percent of the book sales I've
definitely heard five percent guys I
think five percent is Kauffman six to
ten percent of sales usually in two
tiers a lower percentage up to ten
thousand copies and then one to two
percent higher after that and 20% to 30%
of the e-book sales so this means that
if the book sells for just ten dollars
and you managed to sell 50,000 copies
you'll be making fifty thousand dollars
okay
there are numerous absurdities in the
the book publishing industry and what
most people resent about it is exactly
the authoritarian nature of the
relationship between the author and the
editor I know I used to be an editor and
I was pretty demanding editor to alright
I wasn't gonna publish
anything that was factually false or
grammatically wrong or what have you I
was trying to represent a standard of
excellence raise the quality of the
books we were producing there you know
people don't like that what people like
is the freedom that you have on Facebook
and Twitter and YouTube okay why is it
that a news broadcaster on TV gets paid
so much more money than I do so I'm
about to do a YouTube video talking
about politics of Chile politics and
economic problems in Chile all right you
know I'm probably gonna do a better job
than your a local news broadcaster on TV
Ontario or your look you know I probably
put more hours into researching the
situation and I probably have something
more interesting more valuable to say
okay why am I not paid by YouTube to say
that whereas the news broadcaster on TV
is paid really quite a very good wage
even if it's just a local news
broadcaster that just reaches one town
one city they may they may only reach
you know a few tens of thousands of
viewers total viewership for terrestrial
you know TV broadcasts are not that
great okay it's unless it's nationwide
or international or something you know
but they are in a good living I don't
you know why you know why it's that same
thing freedom okay
I get to come on camera and say whatever
I want to say I get to work on my own
schedule yes I get to make a video about
Chile but I don't have to make a video
about politics of Chile I could instead
make a video but the politics of China
or the politics of Taiwan and the
politics of Canada I get to do whatever
I want to do whenever I want to do it so
there's a difference here that's similar
to the difference between someone who
likes going to the gym and someone who's
actually an athlete okay
I've mention this in a channel like five
years ago people call themselves
athletes because they look good on
Instagram
no no homie doesn't matter if you're
handsome or beautiful okay being a real
athlete means that you don't work out on
your own schedule you work out on a
schedule imposed on you by the coach by
the team ultimately by the sponsors and
the investors be
an athlete means precisely that you get
uncomfortable everyday that you don't
just work out for your own joy in your
own gratification you work out to
satisfy a higher standard that's set for
you by coaches by other authority
figures right and it's denigrated and
people hate it just like people people
love to complain about their boss real
athletes love to complain about the
coach or the trainer or the other
members on the team okay it's brutal and
it's denigrating and it's exhausting
whereas going to the gym whenever you
feel like it and taking a sexy photo of
yourself and putting on Instagram
whatever you feel like it that's not
being an athlete and fundamentally what
we do here on YouTube is not rewarded
economically in the same way because
this is not being a broadcast
[Music]